---
title: The dwarves and the scourge
---

The year is 1582 from the founding and the dwarves are a shadow of their former selves. An age ago, the Red Night brought psychic powers to the living races and also unbeknownest to all laid the seeds of the Scourge, extradimensional beings whose existence was anathema to the reality of the known world. 

The scourge started slowly, tales from a rural village, but it spread, a black tide making our world into their own. From the western mountains to the sea, it was all scourgeland, with only the high mountain monasteries remaining untouched. By 560, the scourge spread west. They are not of this world and their anatomy was foreign, but they were still living things, seeming to draw their sustenance from the unknown forces of the earth. The world reshaped itself upon their arrival, their camps from black basalt sprung up the the earth. Deep hollows formed below them, seemingly impossible networks of black crusted tunnels. 

Allies came as well. The plantmen emerged from the living places of the world, a caste of warriors born from the earth itself to do battle against the scourge. The dragonborn there, their ancestral homes destroyed by the scourge, rallied south of the range to fight again. 

And the dwarves, seeing what had become of the land directly to the east, searched for answers. They found them in the shard minds, crystalline sentient creatures from beneath the earth. The shardminds as well were born from the Red Night, as the psychic scream animated the precious stones in the vaults of the dwarves. More would soon be found all around the continent. 8 in total, but perhaps many unknown. They were each possessed with a keen intellect and some measure of psychic power.

In the end, the dwarves discovered that bringing the shard minds together caused a great psychic explosion as they joined together. Whats more, a lingering psychic deadzone, deadly to sentient creatures of all types. The dwarves exploited this by laying a trap to draw the scourge into the dwarven halls, but the shardminds did not cooperate. The plan was a failure. For various reasons, the shardminds rebelled and tried to escape. By the time the shardminds were brought together, the scourge had reached the dwarven capital. The shardminds were brought together and the resulting psychic explosion rendered the dwarves and the scourge leadership dead. However, the scourge had advanced far deeper into the holds than intended and the dwarven capital and all of its halls were rendered uninhabitable.

The sacrifice of the dwarves paved the way for human prosperity in the modern world. Even though many survived, their holdings were gone. Some dwarves transitioned to all dwarven communities on the surface. Some integrated with human settlements. But in many cases, these dwarven caravans met a terrible fate. They did not have the stability of their mountain homes and suffered for it. They still suffer for it near a millennia later. The dwarven loss of their homeland stings the heart of each and every one. By the 1500's, the age of the dwarves has come to a close. It is now the age of men.

The dwarven cities stand as they always have, filled with legendary machines and craftsmanship. The fruits of these holds have inspired scores of expeditions. But the mind numbing echoes of the scream that killed the dwarves still persists and those explorers who do not turn back are instead rendered dumb or mad. 