# Dark Age fantasy in an age of myth 

Might makes right. The wilderness is dangerous and travel is uncertain. Magic is a source of power, but all magic comes at great cost. Centuries ago, artisans built great walls and monuments, but those lie in ruins. Every town is a fortress, only walls and armed men can allow a settlement to grow. Many fall each year. The roads are pitted and treacherous and the settled races look to a bleak future.

Weapons
The best weapon is the sword. The standard battlefield weapon is the spear. Battle axes are far more common than swords.

Peoples 
Forest peoples - They are great hunters, trap layers and carpenters. They build strong settlements quickly. They are prone to anger and brew a powerful beer from tree sap. They wear animal pelts and thick cloaks. They are poor farmers and okay shepherds. Their horse stock are heavy for pulling large loads. The women of the forest peoples are larger than the men and women run the society as rulers and chieftains. Though quick to anger, they prefer preparation and steadfastness over wild abandon. They are builders at heart, expanding their settlements and growing stronger, slowly. They still lose settlements to attacks each year. Forest peoples are dark and ruddy skinned, with hair from black to brown. They practice herb magic for healing and protection. They pay homage to 1 god who created the forest and provided them everything they have. They ask for her strength in battle and her aid during hardship. They do not worship, only give thanks. All heroes are associated with this god in some way. They harvest iron from bogs. 

Plains peoples - They are nomads. They must follow herds of migrating animals for food. They live in tents. They have great dogs who ride along side them. They ride horses who are sleek and powerful. They fight with bow and arrow and javelin, mostly from horseback. They will stay in one place for months at a time, but eventually move on. They sack caravans for supplies. They wear clothing make from animal hides. They prefer wealth that is useful and light. Even the chieftains sleep in simple tents. Weapons are a great status symbol, being both light and useful. They worship a god of animals. They believe all men were animals once. The priests care for animals and bless animals. They view the world in animal terms of shelter and food. They call this natures rule. Others view them as honorless, but they honor their own code. They are tan skinned, generally slight of frame. They sometimes eat people, especially in lean times. 

Cave people - They live underground. They come to the surface to hunt. They are known to ambush others. They dig tunnels. They are friends with a race of giant beetles. The communicate with beetles by clicking. The beetles are smart. The cave people survive by hiding rather than fighting. They bury their wealth so they can dig it up again. They hunt for food and grow worms and bugs to eat. They wear very simple clothing, but are mostly nude. They fight with clubs when forced. Cave people worship 3 gods of water, earth and air. They do not pay homage to them, but plead with them.
